README.md, before:

# Reachy Mini
This is a small project to explore the Reachy Mini robot.

To Do:
 - Trigger Voice ConversationL
   - See conversation app, openai_realtime ~360. Need to get each delta and put it in a queue for the robot to emit

Other Ideas:
 - Make it possible to cancel emotion moves
 - Look based on direction of arrival
 - Face tracking + scan (look at you) (run in separate process)
 - Link / embed some of the existing apps (20 questions, hand tracking)

## Wake Word
Working on this - need to find and run some existing voice model
https://huggingface.co/spaces/luisomoreau/hey_reachy_wake_word_detection

## Conversation
Looks like they have conversation with face tracking already
https://huggingface.co/spaces/pollen-robotics/reachy_mini_conversation_app/tree/main/src/reachy_mini_conversation_app

# Installation
## Install PortAudio
This is required for OpenWakeWord, and is not installed automatically.

```bash
sudo apt install portaudio19-dev
```

## Install Python-SDK
https://github.com/pollen-robotics/reachy_mini/blob/develop/docs/SDK/installation.md

**That includes instructions for allowing access to the USB**

Had and issue with Direction of Arrival with USB permissions, 
had to update /etc/udev/rules.d/99-reachy-mini.rules to
```
SUBSYSTEM=="tty", ATTRS{idVendor}=="1a86", ATTRS{idProduct}=="55d3", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
SUBSYSTEM=="tty", ATTRS{idVendor}=="38fb", ATTRS{idProduct}=="1001", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
# Target the raw USB hardware (usb) - This fixes the USBError Errno 13
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="1a86", ATTRS{idProduct}=="55d3", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
# Do the same for the Audio/Camera if they are causing issues
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="38fb", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
```
The last line was the one that seemed to fix it.

## Install Dependencies
Run 
```
uv sync
```

## Add Run Internal to Sudoers
On Frisket, had issue where the internal hub of the laptop gets stuck, added a script for this 
`./script/reset_internal_hub.sh`, had to adjust sudoers to allow my user to be able to run this
without sudo privileges. See `visudo`


# Running 
Need to run the daemon and the application, with a watchdog that waits for the "audio samples are all 0" issue
and then restarts USB hub.

**Session needs sudo privileges**
```bash
uv run python run_reachy_supervisor.py
```


# Issues

## Audio - All samples are 0.0
Sometimes have trouble getting audio from the robot, not sure the problem yet,
but saw that if an error is raised by the daemon it can be because the audio device
is already claimed, you can check using
```bash
arecord -l
```
Don't leave the sound settings open, as they use the device.

### Issue 2: USB Hub Failure
When I collect samples using robot.media.get_audio_sample(), I get samples, but they're all 0.0.

Turns out, this is because the interal USB hub in Frisket gets stuck, the script `reset_internal_hub.sh` addresses
this. Had to add edit sudoers to allow my user to always do this, see `visudo`

Here are the debugging notes:
Evidence:
 - Checked the mic on Pipewire, it's also reading no input.
 - Tried conversation app, it's also no longer getting input
 - ALSA driver is getting all zeroes
 - Plug Cycle fixes it
 - Power cycle of Reachy Mini does not fix it.
 - Pollen robotics could not reproduce

Tested raw samples from driver with `arecord -D plughw:0,0 -d 5 -f S16_LE -r 16000 -t raw | od -x`,
it's getting all zeroes.

On Frisket, turned off USB suspend for this device using 
`echo "on" | sudo tee /sys/bus/usb/devices/3-3/power/control`
will see if it's caused by suspend or not. Didn't help.

## Direction of Arrival Issue
Had to adjust USB permissions, see installation section.

Commit message:

Fixes issue with switching conversation modes

README.md, after:

# Reachy Mini
This is a small project to explore the Reachy Mini robot.

To Do:
 - Trigger Voice ConversationL
   - See conversation app, openai_realtime ~360. Need to get each delta and put it in a queue for the robot to emit

Other Ideas:
 - Make it possible to cancel emotion moves
 - Look based on direction of arrival
 - Face tracking + scan (look at you) (run in separate process)
 - Link / embed some of the existing apps (20 questions, hand tracking)

## Wake Word
Using OpenWakeWord models, here's a Reachy specific one someone trained
https://huggingface.co/spaces/luisomoreau/hey_reachy_wake_word_detection


# Installation
## Install PortAudio
This is required for OpenWakeWord, and is not installed automatically.

```bash
sudo apt install portaudio19-dev
```

## Install Python-SDK
https://github.com/pollen-robotics/reachy_mini/blob/develop/docs/SDK/installation.md

**That includes instructions for allowing access to the USB**

Had and issue with Direction of Arrival with USB permissions, 
had to update /etc/udev/rules.d/99-reachy-mini.rules to
```
SUBSYSTEM=="tty", ATTRS{idVendor}=="1a86", ATTRS{idProduct}=="55d3", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
SUBSYSTEM=="tty", ATTRS{idVendor}=="38fb", ATTRS{idProduct}=="1001", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
# Target the raw USB hardware (usb) - This fixes the USBError Errno 13
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="1a86", ATTRS{idProduct}=="55d3", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
# Do the same for the Audio/Camera if they are causing issues
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="38fb", MODE="0666", GROUP="dialout"
```
The last line was the one that seemed to fix it.

## Install Dependencies
Run 
```
uv sync
```

## Add Run Internal to Sudoers
On Frisket, had issue where the internal hub of the laptop gets stuck, added a script for this 
`./script/reset_internal_hub.sh`, had to adjust sudoers to allow my user to be able to run this
without sudo privileges. See `visudo`


# Running 
Need to run the daemon and the application, with a watchdog that waits for the "audio samples are all 0" issue
and then restarts USB hub.

Note: Script for restarting interal hub had to be added as allowed in `visudo`, this is done on Frisket.
```bash
uv run python run_reachy_supervisor.py
```

# Issues
## Low Audio
This is controlled by OS, can adjust with `alsamixer` for example.

## Audio - All samples are 0.0
Sometimes have trouble getting audio from the robot, not sure the problem yet,
but saw that if an error is raised by the daemon it can be because the audio device
is already claimed, you can check using
```bash
arecord -l
```
Don't leave the sound settings open, as they use the device.

### Issue 2: USB Hub Failure
When I collect samples using robot.media.get_audio_sample(), I get samples, but they're all 0.0.

Turns out, this is because the interal USB hub in Frisket gets stuck, the script `reset_internal_hub.sh` addresses
this. Had to add edit sudoers to allow my user to always do this, see `visudo`

Here are the debugging notes:
Evidence:
 - Checked the mic on Pipewire, it's also reading no input.
 - Tried conversation app, it's also no longer getting input
 - ALSA driver is getting all zeroes
 - Plug Cycle fixes it
 - Power cycle of Reachy Mini does not fix it.
 - Pollen robotics could not reproduce

Tested raw samples from driver with `arecord -D plughw:0,0 -d 5 -f S16_LE -r 16000 -t raw | od -x`,
it's getting all zeroes.

On Frisket, turned off USB suspend for this device using 
`echo "on" | sudo tee /sys/bus/usb/devices/3-3/power/control`
will see if it's caused by suspend or not. Didn't help.

## Direction of Arrival Issue
Had to adjust USB permissions, see installation section.
